>> Speaker 1: Going back to the first
thing you were talking about Ansible
versus Bash scripts.
One of the reasons that I've been
doing Ansible or using that is for
the item potency part of it.
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Have you handled that at
all in the bash stuff that you've done?
Or is it just like, yeah,
run it it'll be fine.
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah, so
a couple things there.
One thing is if you remove, obviously,
something from your Ansible script and
you rerun your Ansible script,
it won't know about that thing.
So that thing will continue to live.
So it's like,
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> ThePrimeagen: Most certainly
the idempotency is like an important part,
but it's also there's some lies around it
is that it doesn't always stay
up to date with what you think.
Second, that's why I like the remove and
then copy kind of plan,
because that's very Ansible-like.
You'll notice I kind of stole that
same ideas, I want to do that.
So it's partially there.
It's never gonna be there but
nothing I do is that complicated.
I can reinstall,
I can re-pseudo apt install JQ 1000 times.
I'm not gaining new versions of JQ
over and over again on my system.
Apt is smart enough to handle that for me.
So I just kind of like
gave that part up and
realized I don't think that part
really matters for my personal system.
If there is something that,
every time I execute it,
it adds one to a list somewhere on my
system, and that's forever getting bigger,
hopefully I would discover that.
And then I can write an if statement for
that one thing.
You minimally, if you're using,
what's it called?
If you're using that, you gotta admit.
I like that's pretty sweet.
Right, if you're using Ansible and I just
like update and just execute that fast,
you're like, dang, that is, I like that.
>> Speaker 1: I'm tempted.
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah,
this is the whole driving factor for
me too was to develop this entire
thing was cuz of Ansible slowness.
Cuz I didn't want to do that.
I really try to use tools first and
when they can't conform to what I want,
then I try to build my own.
And so
this is me building my replacement, Mark?
>> Mark: How do you keep your dot file
repo updated with local config changes,
since you don't use stow anymore?
>> ThePrimeagen: So that's why,
if you notice that, it's always copy over.
And I'm always in the habit to edit
my dev folder, not just the thing.
So you did see me here for
a brief second to get the little typing,
these little typing symbols right here.
As I type, I went like this and
edited the live version.
That means the moment I push this,
it's gonna just replace it,
which it already did.
So if I were to rerun this, my
keystrokes will no longer be right here.
It's just running right now.
Cuz I didn't wanna edit the actual file
cuz it works for me when I'm at home.
And so that's kind of my approach
is that I've just built in a habit.
I have a convention over a configuration.
So when I want to edit something for my
personal system, I go to my dev folder and
then I do my edit and then I push all out.
Look, I still even have
my previous play books.
See, I told you I was
really building Lula here.
I still have them all right there and
so I just edit it there, and
then I go dev n, right?
And then that will go delete
everything and re-add everything and so
I just keep on doing that process.
>> Speaker 4: The major tools that we
talked about, like Bash, Vim, and t-mux.
What was your progression for
how you adopted them?
Was it you kind of went on a deep dive and
learned them all and to for this setup
like this, or you kind of picked them up
along the way throughout your career and
pieced them together?
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah, so in 2012,
I picked up vim motions and IntelliJ.
I thought vim was for old, stupid people.
Honestly, I had that very kind of,
a churlish a mindset of young kids
when they're 22 and they're just like,
yeah, Vim's for stupid old people,
why would you wanna do this?
So that was my mentality in 2012 and then
I did Vim motions, and I was just like,
hey, hey, man, I love Starcraft.
I love this too and so it's just
like I started getting into that and
then I remember I was just
really fast at using Vim.
It just spoke to my heart.
It was just the thing I really, really
liked and so I could definitely do this.
I really enjoy this and then in 2000 and
some time, 2015 I had a co-worker named
Yunong, and he joined old joint engineer
worked on Node way back in the day.
Then he just it's kinda helped me around,
playing around with my Vim RC.
So I just started using
Vim instead of IntelliJ.
I was like, it was really fun.
Started using that, kind of explored
around, eventually, kind of gave up,
went back to IntelliJ but
I just used it for a while.
Then I watched a co worker named Anders
back, and he's really, really good at C++.
And a guy named Guy Serino,
he has some guy, nice try, guy.
That guy, they just both were so fast and
they're just environment would switch all
over the place that I just watched and
went, okay, I'm gonna learn this.
That's what I want.
I want their editing speed.
Because when I went over to Anders side,
I said, hey,
there's a bug in this version of TV why?
And he's working on something.
He's like, hold on, swap over.
Checked out a new version.
Did this, this, I was just like,
that was the fastest thing I've ever seen.
How did he do that?
Now, I understand all the things he did.
He does it through Emacs.
So I will say he's a sinner but
we'll get there,
maybe one day we'll bring
him over to new Vim.
But nonetheless, he was so
very, very fast, and
it just kind of impressed upon me
that I've been living in 1999.
I wanna live in 2077 right?
I wanna be way out there with
all the speed and everything and
I wanna be the fastest possible
coolest way to do things.
And so I'm like why am I not doing that.
And so
then that kind of just stuck it in me so
in about 2016 was that that happened.
So I went i3 and
then t-max came a little bit later and
then just kept adding things over
the course of the last eight years.
>> Mark: How do you keep
your mullet looking so good.
>> ThePrimeagen: That's a great question.
So I use my wife's shampoo.
She spends a lot more on
shampoo than I do and so
I would use Gurney a fruittease normally.
Second, obviously,
I'd like to thank my mom's dad.
Thanks for having all that hair.
Mom's dad, cuz I am in my upper 30s and
still mostly half hair, so
I'm pretty happy about that.
And then lastly, obviously,
I would just say just adopting
the lifestyle of a mullet makes
your mullet more beautiful.
So I've been really thinking about
drinking a lot more Miller Lite these
days shooting, shotguns off the back of
ATVs, just really living that lifestyle.
>> Speaker 5: Obviously this is
a lot of like your own what you do,
yeah your setup is but
the kind of fast shut up and
just doing all those things
that's kind of the skeleton.
You can throw in whatever you
actually want in there right.
>> ThePrimeagen: Correct.
>> Speaker 4: It doesn't have to lead you
towards the dark path of Vim.
>> ThePrimeagen: It doesn't have to
lead you towards the dark path of Vim.
And I think more importantly
what it should lead you towards
is the desire to do something to take away
all the annoyances of your day whatever
that looks like.
And then you have to be willing to do
something that's counterintuitive.
When I learned Vim,
I thought it was counterintuitive,
as I specifically said for
old, dumb dudes from the 70s.
I didn't wanna hang out with those guys.
I was like, those kind of stupid
other command line tools,
and then all sudden, I used it.
I'm like, okay, I was wrong.
I was the bad guy in this situation.
The call came from the house.
The killer's in the house and
the killer's me, right?
I was just realized that I was
the wrong one in this situation.
So things that are counterintuitive
at first are harder to adopt, but
then when you do it,
you realize how much better it is.
One of the best examples,
I think, is that what?
Every single professional golf
player holds golf thing like
this with crossed fingers in this very
specific way you're supposed to hold it.
I think there might be one or
two that don't, but
naturally I would hold it like that.
I'd get ready to try to smash it.
It's like, no, you gotta do all these
weird things with your body and
they're all counterintuitive,
but then when you get good at it,
you'll be much better than
the person who never does it.
But that's only if you
want to get to that level.
Do you just want to hold it
like a baseball bat and swing?
Some people just wanna get that good and
they can get to a certain point
of goodness, and that's okay.
And maybe that's what you're
okay with shooting for.
I was never okay with that.
So for development, I was ready to
hold my head, still do all the things,
get a trainer, put stuff on my feet
to hold the golf club, all weird.
And then now I'm using Vim and
all these things, right?
So it's like I was willing to make
that leap cuz I wanted to get to
the professionals.
I didn't wanna just keep swirling around
in what felt comfortable without ever
leaving that.
And I do also, one more thing,
I know, there's another question.
It's hyper important to always
challenge your comfort zone.
Whatever that is,
doesn't matter what it is.
In programming, you always want to push
yourself into something you don't know,
at least for some small amount of time.
I have a personal theory,
this personal theory,
that most burnout happens because
you never see anything new.
It's just like, you wake up,
you go to your job, you do the thing, you
already know the thing you're gonna do,
the thing's already been planned for
two months.
And in two more months, you already
know what you're gonna be doing,
you already know all the answers,
it's just a matter of you mashing in
the keys, you're hyper-unmotivated.
So your work goes by at like a snail's
pace, and it's just like every single day.
Of course, you'd be burnt out.
And so for me, I have to after work or
in my spare time,
do things that I think are cool or
exciting, build things I didn't think
I could build, because for me,
that makes the rest of life good.
It's if I can't find a time to enjoy it
for what it is, then I can't enjoy it for
when I have to eat meat and
potatoes or eat the plain stuff.
So that's personal mentality there,
all right, Mark?
>> Mark: Two new questions came in
around the happiness of a team,
and kind of applying these principles
to working with other people.
Have you found any sort of tips in your
time working with teams at Netflix or
wherever applying these principles
to working with other people?
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah I've been through
quite a few different teams because
I spent over a decade at Netflix.
I've been on many different teams and
many different teams have totally
different operating procedures.
Some people want to get together and
have a style guide.
They want to have required testing,
whether it's integration,
whatever it is, right?
And some people want none of that.
And so obviously you have to
play the team you're on, and
every team is slightly different than
the other team you're going to be on.
And so personally, what I find is that,
I never try to die on bad hills.
I find that that to be the best
way to create a good team.
Is that if someone uploads something or
creates a PR with a style,
I don't like a naming convention,
I don't like any of those things.
I never say any crap thing about that,
because I just think that that is
just a great way to build animosity.
I can think of people specifically
that I never want to work with,
cuz it's just like every kill,
you will die on.
So it's like, some are important,
some aren't important.
Now, when an important one comes up,
I'm gonna be willing to push against you,
cuz I think that everything you
say is just nonsense versus this.
So for me, all about creating team
cohesion or collaboration, right?
So it's like, yeah,
you'd like to do it your way, it's fine.
If we have a style guide, everyone has
to have the same looking-ish code, so
I don't care if you wanna do
it this way versus that way.
Some people like currying and lambdas and
other people don't wanna do any of that
and they want it this way with classes.
It's just I'm not gonna argue over the
fine details because at the end of the day
none of them matter.
And so, that's my team approach.
It's just only fight for
the things that make sense and
just let people do the thing they want.
I don't have nearly
the same approach to teams.
I think most software can be written, and
most software's complete crap anyways,
just due to time constraints and
not knowing what's happening.
And also just longevity of it being,
you build something over two years.
The first six months are just chaos
compared to the last six months,
you're just like, Man,
I wish those ones were better.
So it's just like, yeah, I'm sure there
does exist a world in which we could make
a perfect team, where everyone's happy and
everyone works on meaningful stuff.
But most of us just have to try to
fight Jenkins and make groovy work.
It's just like that's life.
So I try not to be too intense about it.
That's my team answer, at least.